# IoT-Based-Irrigation-System
IOT based Irrigation System is one of the new emerging technologies in the world at this moment. The most common method used at this moment in irrigation system is the motor which is supplying the water to the different parts of the agriculture field. IOT based irrigation system is the one of the simplest and the inexpensive method of connecting the motor with the internet and control accordingly as per the requirements of the user. Interconnection of number of devices through internet describes the Internet of things (IoT). Every object is connected with each other through unique identifier so that data can be transferred without human to human interaction. It allows establishing solutions for better management of natural resources. The smart objects embedded with sensors enables interaction with the physical and logical worlds according to the concept of IoT. In this paper proposed system is based on IoT that uses real time input data. Smart farm irrigation system uses android phone for remote monitoring and controlling of drips through wireless sensor network. Zigbee is used for communication between sensor nodes and base station. Real time sensed data handling and demonstration on the server is accomplished using web based java graphical user interface. Wireless monitoring of field irrigation system reduces human intervention and allows remote monitoring and controlling on android phone. Cloud Computing is an attractive solution to the large amount of data generated by the wireless sensor network. This paper proposes and evaluates a cloud-based wireless communication system to monitor and control a set of sensors and actuators to assess the plants water need.
